t 6 in ) and the beam was slightly reduced to 31 @.@ 71 metres ( 104 ft 0 in ) .

Upon commissioning , the sister ships were assigned to the 1st Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet . Hyūga had an explosion in one of her main gun turrets that killed 11 men and injured 25 in 1919 ; the following year she accidentally collided with and sank a schooner , losing two crewmen . Before the start of the Pacific War , both ships frequently exercised off the coasts of the Soviet Union , Korea and China in addition to training in Japanese waters . Ise hosted Edward , Prince of Wales , and his aide @-@ de @-@ camp Lieutenant Louis Mountbatten in 1922 during the prince 's visit to Japan . In Korea Bay when the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake struck , they sailed to Kyushu where they loaded supplies from for the victims on 4 September . Together with two other battleships and a pair of light cruisers , Ise sank the destroyer Yayoi in 1926 during gunnery practice . Ise 's AA armament was upgraded in 1931 and Hyūga 's two years later . The latter ship was modernized in 1934 – 36 and Ise in 1935 – 37 , both at Kure Naval Arsenal . During the Second Sino @-@ Japanese War , the sisters frequently patrolled the Chinese coast in support of the blockade imposed by Japan . In August 1937 Hyūga ferried two battalions of Special Naval Landing Forces to Port Arthur . Three years later , she served as the flagship for the Emperor of the puppet state of Manchukuo , Henry Pu @-@ yi , during his state visit to Japan in June 1940 . On 15 November the ships were transferred to the 2nd Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet . The sisters were refitted in late 1940 in preparation for war , which included the fitting of external degaussing coils and additional AA directors .

When Japan began the Pacific War on 8 December , the sisters sortied for the Bonin Islands with four other battleships and the light carrier Hōshō as distant cover for the fleet attacking Pearl Harbor , and returned six days later . On 11 March 1942 Ise and Hyūga sortied from their anchorage at Hashirajima to join the unsuccessful search for the American carrier force that had attacked Marcus Island a week earlier . Similarly they pursued but did not catch the American carriers that had launched the Doolittle Raid on 18 April .

During gunnery training on 5 May , there was a premature detonation in the left gun of Hyūga 's Turret No. 5 that disabled both guns and killed 51 crewmen . Both aft magazines were flooded to douse the resulting fire and save the ship . She received temporary repairs during which the turret was removed and replaced by a circular armour plate on which three triple 25 mm gun mounts were positioned . On 11 May a valve in Ise 's No. 2 engine room stuck in the open position and flooded the engine room . While under repair at Kure , both ships received prototype Type 21 radars . Commanded by Vice @-@ Admiral Shirō Takasu , the 2nd Battleship Division set sail with the Aleutian Support Group on 28 May , at the same time that most of the Imperial Fleet began an attack on Midway Island ( Operation MI ) .

They returned home on 14 June and the IJN began preliminary planning to replace the lost carriers with hybrid carriers converted from battleships . The sisters were selected for conversion and detached from the division on 14 July in preparation . They remained on " standby alert " until the actual conversions began . Ise was converted at Kure Naval Arsenal from 23 February to 5 September 1943 and Hyūga at Sasebo Naval Arsenal from 2 May to 30 November .

After completing her sea trials , Ise was attached to the Imperial Japanese Naval Academy at Etajima and ferried troops and munitions to the naval base at Truk in October . In November the ship began working up , joined by the newly completed Hyūga the following month , and both rejoined the 2nd Battleship Division . On 1 May 1944 , the sisters were transferred to Rear Admiral Matsuda Chiaki 's reformed Fourth Carrier Division of the 3rd Fleet . The division 's 634th Naval Air Group was formed that same day and conducted its first catapult launches in late June .

Shortages of aircraft and serviceability problems greatly retarded pilot training and the ships only had a total of 17 D4Ys and 18 E16As on hand on 1 October ; of these , only 6 and 16 were operational , respectively . The Japanese plan for the defence of the Philippines envisioned that the surviving carriers would be used to lure the American carrier forces away from the invasion area to a position where the carriers could be attacked by land @-@ based aircraft and the transports by the rest of the IJN . The other carrier air groups were not in much better shape and the Japanese decided to retain the aircraft ashore for use against the American carriers . The Fourth Carrier Division was assigned to the Northern Force under the command of Vice Admiral Jisaburō Ozawa and the sisters sailed from Yashima on 20 October . On the morning of 24 October , the bulk of the few aircraft aboard were launched to attack the American carriers as a distraction . They inflicted no damage and caused the Americans to search in the direction from which they had attacked . The Americans finally spotted the Japanese carriers at 16 : 40 , some 200 miles ( 320 km ) east of Cape Engaño , the northeastern tip of Luzon . The American carriers were spread out and it was very late in the day to launch an airstrike , so Admiral William Halsey , commander of the Third Fleet decided to mass his carriers in a position to attack the following morning . Ozawa reversed course during the night , correctly believing that the Americans would follow him north .

Although they had lost contact during the night , the Americans did find the Japanese carriers at 07 : 35 . They had already launched an airstrike of 180 aircraft that was orbiting 50 miles ( 80 km ) ahead of the American carriers while waiting for the Japanese ships to be located . This was just the first of a total of five airstrikes that the Americans launched that day . The sisters were not heavily engaged by the early airstrikes which are focusing on the group 's aircraft carriers . Ise claimed to have shot down five attacking dive bombers from the second wave and one small bomb detonated on Turret No. 2 . Hyūga was lightly damaged by near misses that rupture some hull plating in her bulge and pepper her superstructure with splinters . She took on a 5 @-@ degree list that was quickly corrected before she was ordered to tow the crippled carrier Chiyoda to safety . Her attempt was unsuccessful and Chiyoda had to be abandoned to her fate .

Ise was attacked by 80 @-@ odd aircraft from the fourth wave , but they failed to inflict any serious damage . She dodged 11 torpedoes and was only hit by a bomb once , on the bulge outboard of the port catapult . Some 34 other bombs near missed her , spraying her with splinters and ruptured some hull plates that contaminated some fuel oil and caused leaks in her port boiler rooms . While an exact total of her casualties is not available , it has been estimated that 5 men were killed and some 111 – 121 crewmen were wounded during this attack . Hyūga was unsuccessfully attacked by an American submarine at 18 : 43 . Around 19 : 00 Ozawa learned about a force of destroyers and cruisers that drove off the Japanese destroyers rescuing survivors from some of the carriers lost earlier in the day and sank Chiyoda . He ordered the Fourth Carrier Division to reverse course and engage the Americans , but the battleships were unable to find them , and Ozawa ordered them to reverse course and head for Amami Ōshima . When they arrived on 27 October , Ozawa transferred to Hyūga and hoisted his flag aboard her . While en route for Kure , the division was unsuccessfully attacked by another submarine .

In early November the catapults were removed from both ships , and they loaded troops and munitions later that month . While en route they were diverted to the Spratly Islands upon reports of heavy air raids at Manila . After off @-@ loading their cargo , they sailed for Lingga Island , near Singapore , on 20 November . They transferred to Cam Ranh Bay , French Indochina and Hyūga became flagship of the 5th Fleet there on 14 December . The division sailed for Singapore on 30 December and Vice Admiral Kiyohide Shima transferred his flag to the light cruiser Ōyodo on arrival there the following day . The division continued onwards to Lingga . Its planned return to Japan was delayed by attacks by the American Third Fleet on targets in Indochina and southern China that sank two oil tankers that were intended to refuel the division .

The IJN then decided to use the sisters and their escorts to bring a load of petrol , rubber , tin and other strategic minerals back to Japan after the American carriers departed the South China Sea ( Operation Kita ) . They loaded their cargoes beginning on 6 February at Singapore and departed four days later . Also carrying some 1 @,@ 150 oilfield workers , they were escorted by Ōyodo and three destroyers . Decrypted Japanese radio signals revealed the Japanese plan to the Allies , and 15 submarines were positioned along their anticipated route in an attempt to intercept and sink the ships . An additional 11 were moved into position while the group was en route , but only three were ultimately able to attack . None of them were successful before the Japanese reached Kure on 20 February . The Fourth Carrier Division was disbanded on 1 March and the sisters were reduced to 1st rank reserve ships . On 19 March Kure was attacked by aircraft from Task Force 58 and Hyūga was hit three times by bombs that killed 37 men and wounded 52 . Her gunners claimed to have shot down one American dive bomber during the attack . Ise was hit twice during the attack , but her casualties , if any , are unknown .

The ships were turned into floating AA batteries over the next several months although it availed them little when they were attacked again by American carrier aircraft in July . On the 24th Ise was struck by five bombs and near missed multiple times ; all told she lost 50 crewmen killed and many others wounded . The bombs started numerous leaks and Ise began to settle by the bow , although she was returned to an even keel after three @-@ days pumping . Hyūga was a primary focus of the attack and she received 10 direct hits and up to 30 near misses . She was badly damaged with some 200 @-@ odd crewmen killed and 600 wounded during the attack . She slowly foundered over the next two days and was not attacked when the Americans returned four days later . This time it was Ise 's turn and she was struck 11 or more times with many near misses that put her on the bottom in shallow water with a 15 degree list . The sisters were struck off the Navy List in November and their wrecks were scrapped after the war .

Richard Gale " Dick " Rifenburg ( August 21 , 1926 – December 5 , 1994 ) was an American football player and a pioneering television broadcaster for the forerunner to WIVB @-@ TV in Buffalo . He played college football for the University of Michigan Wolverines in 1944 and from 1946 to 1948 . He was a consensus selection at end on the 1948 College Football All @-@ America Team . Rifenburg played professionally in the National Football League ( NFL ) with the Detroit Lions for one season in 1950 . After retiring from football he settled in Buffalo and became a sports broadcaster . He worked as a color commentator and as a play @-@ by @-@ play announcer for the Buffalo Bulls . He hosted various television and radio sports shows and was eventually inducted into the Buffalo Broadcasters Hall of Fame .

In college , he led the Big Ten Conference in single season receptions during his senior year and set Michigan Wolverines receptions records for both career touchdown and single @-@ season touchdowns . He had also been a Michigan High School Athletic Association ( MHSAA ) state champion in both basketball and track and field . His college career was interrupted by World War II service , and his high school career was also affected by the war due to the MHSAA 's cancellation of state championships in all sports in 1943 .

Rifenburg was born in Petoskey , Michigan , and raised in Kalamazoo , Michigan before his family moved to Saginaw , Michigan . Rifenburg was a star athlete at Saginaw 's Arthur Hill High School in football , basketball , and track and field . In 1943 , Michigan canceled boys high school tournaments in all sports due to World War II , and they did not return until the fall of 1944 . In 1944 , he led Arthur Hill High to the MHSAA Class A high school basketball championship ( over Kalamazoo Central High School ) , scoring 24 points , including 17 in the second half , of the championship game . Rifenburg was also the state champion in 1944 in both the shot put 46 feet 11 inches ( 14 @.@ 30 m ) and high jump 5 feet 8 @.@ 5 inches ( 1 @.@ 74 m ) . He also led Arthur Hill in football , and his high school accomplishments are featured in Glory : The history of Saginaw County sports by Jack Tany ( ASIN B0006RH9Z6 ) , which is a book on high school sports in Saginaw County , Michigan . Rifenburg was named All State in football , basketball and track .

It is ironic that Rifenburg was born in Petoskey , Michigan in 1926 for several reasons . Ted Petoskey preceded Rifenburg as an All @-@ American end on the University of Michigan football team . Petoskey had excelled as a representative of Saginaw County in MHSAA competition . Petoskey posted significant football accomplishments in 1926 making 1926 a significant year for himself as well . Achieving All @-@ American status as an end at Michigan would be Rifenburg 's next step after excelling in MHSAA competition .

In the fall of 1944 , Rifenburg enrolled at the University of Michigan . The United Press syndicate ran a feature article about Rifenburg in September 1944 that opened as follows : " Another great end has made his appearance on the Big Ten football horizon in the person of Dick Rifenburg , 18 @-@ year @-@ old Michigan freshman . Every so often a great offensive end comes along , a player who has to learn how to play defense , but who has the natural speed , smooth actions , height and big hands that is the mark of an outstanding pass receiver . Rifenburg has laid claim to that rating . A loose @-@ limbed 180 @-@ pound freshman from Saginaw , Mich . , Rifenberg is being boomed as the Big Ten 's next ' freshman sensation . ' " As a freshman , he caught two touchdown passes in his first college football game against Iowa . In an article titled " Teens and TNT , " Time reported on Rifenburg 's performance : " Of the few teams already in action , Michigan 's teens rang the freshman bell loudest last week by winning their opener , 12 -to @-@ 7 , against the strong Iowa Seahawks ( Naval Pre @-@ Flight ) ; 6 @-@ ft . 4 Freshman End Dick Rifenburg caught passes and ran for both Michigan touchdowns . "

Rifenburg 's college career was interrupted by World War II service in the United States Navy , but after missing the 1945 season , he returned to play for the Wolverines from 1946 to 1948 . Rifenburg played for the Wolverines in consecutive undefeated National Championship seasons in 1947 and 1948 . He started nine games for the 1947 team . The 1947 team referred to as " Michigan 's Mad Magicians " is considered to be the greatest University of Michigan football team of all time . Rifenberg and teammate Len Ford had the reputation as the team practical jokers . During the 1947 game against Wisconsin , Rifenburg started calling signals for the Badgers . Wisconsin 's offense protested to officials , who " prowled the Wolverines secondary but never caught their man . " Rifenburg continued to scramble Badger signals , as Rifenburg 's teammates laughed at his scheme . In the January 1 , 1948 Rose Bowl that season , Michigan rolled to a 49 – 0 victory over USC , and they outgained the Trojans 491 yards to 133 . Rifenburg caught a 29 @-@ yard pass for the game 's final score .

In the 1948 championship season , Rifenburg scored eight touchdowns , caught 22 passes , and gained 610 yards ( 508 receiving and 102 rushing ) . Rifenburg was the second highest scoring end in the nation in 1948 , and he was a consensus All @-@ American as a senior , being selected as first team on nine of the 11 All @-@ American teams . Rifenburg led the Big Ten in receptions .

Although Rifenburg finished fourth among midwestern Heisman voters in 1948 , he did not finish among the top eight . By comparison , Notre Dame end Leon Hart won the Heisman Trophy in 1949 but made only eight of the 11 All @-@ American teams . It is not clear why Rifenburg did not finish higher . However , it is fairly clear that sportswriters of that era had a bias against Michigan . In the Associated Press poll at the end of the 1947 season , the Notre Dame Fighting Irish were ranked ahead of the University of Michigan , though both teams were undefeated . Some noted that every Southern AP voter had voted for Notre Dame , which had yet to integrate , whereas three of Michigan 's star players ( Bob Mann , Gene Derricotte , and Len Ford ) were African @-@ American . The Southern schools refused even to schedule games against schools that played African @-@ American players .

Rifenburg was considered one of the greatest Wolverine 's of the 1940s . In four seasons with the Michigan Wolverines , Rifenburg played in 32 games and had over 1 @,@ 000 yards of total offense . Rifenburg held the University of Michigan 's single season and career record for touchdown receptions ( eight in a season ; sixteen career ) until his records were broken by Anthony Carter in 1980 .

In 1948 , Rifenburg was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the 15th round of the NFL draft , and he was also drafted by the New York Yankees of the All @-@ America Football Conference . He had intended to play in 1949 with the Yankees , but suffered a knee injury in a practice session for the August 1949 Chicago College All @-@ Star Game . Press accounts at the time noted that the injury " will probably keep him out of pro football all season , if not forever . " The incident led to a debate as to whether NFL owners should " bar their men from playing with the college all @-@ stars . "

Rifenburg landed a job at WJR radio in Detroit , but he left his sportscaster 's job to join the Detroit Lions . In the 1950 NFL season , Rifenburg came back from his injury to play for the Detroit Lions . He played in 12 games and had ten receptions for 96 yards and one touchdown for the 1950 Lions . Rifenburg recalled that his playing time with the Lions was limited because the Lions also signed 1949 Heisman Trophy winner Leon Hart , who played the same position .

In May 1951 , he announced he was retiring from professional football to become sports director at a radio station in Buffalo . He was hired as a sportscaster by WBEN ( now known as WIVB ) , which had just started the first television station in Buffalo and the only one serving Southern Ontario . This was an early foray into television by the Buffalo Evening News . In the 1950s , Rifenburg hosted a popular panel show called " Let 's Talk Sports " in Buffalo and also pioneered an early morning exercise program . He also worked for WBEN ( AM ) and WBEN ( FM ) and as the sideline announcer for Buffalo Bills games along with Van Miller , the long time Bills play @-@ by @-@ play announcer . In addition , he served as the play @-@ by @-@ play announcer for the University of Buffalo Bulls football team . As a radio broadcaster , he is remembered for things ranging from ski reports , to 17 years worth of " Breakfast At — " programs live from various local restaurants , to 27 years as the WBEN @-@ AM All Night Show host .

After 30 years with WBEN and a change in ownership for the station , his show was replaced with the Mutual Network 's The Larry King Show . In the 1980s , Rifenburg taught communications at Buffalo 's Medaille College and served as a disc jockey on Public Broadcasting 's radio station WEBR ( now WDCZ ) . He also sold ads for Buffalo Evening News competitor , Buffalo Courier @-@ Express . Rifenburg 's final employer was Erie County , who hired him as an inmate training supervisor at the Erie County Correctional Facility .

Rifenburg was posthumously inducted into the Buffalo Broadcasters Hall of Fame in September 2007 . He was given the Golden Age Award which is reserved for " those who did it first , the people who had no pattern to follow . " The Hall of Fame award was presented to Rifenburg 's wife , Jane . In her acceptance speech , Jane Rifenburg observed that despite all of her late husband 's achievements , there was one thing he had never received : " He had a great career , but he never had a trophy . And now he has . "

Rifenburg lived 37 of his years in Buffalo . His wife , the former Jane Morris , was the head of the Buffalo Jills cheerleaders when they met . Rifenburg , who was survived by three sons , ( Douglas A. , Gary R. , and Bruce R. ) one daughter ( Wendy J. Colf ) and two grandchildren , died in Cheektowaga , New York in December 1994 ; he was 68 years old . Doug was a 1988 first team football All @-@ Western New York linebacker for Clarence High School .

The 1933 Treasure Coast hurricane was the second @-@ most intense tropical cyclone to strike the United States during the active 1933 Atlantic hurricane season . The eleventh tropical storm , fifth hurricane , and the third major hurricane of the season , it formed east @-@ northeast of the Leeward Islands on August 31 . The tropical storm moved rapidly west @-@ northwestward , steadily intensifying to a hurricane . It acquired peak winds of 140 miles per hour ( 225 km / h ) and passed over portions of the Bahamas on September 3 , including Eleuthera and Harbour Island , causing severe damage to crops , buildings , and infrastructure . Winds over 100 mph ( 161 km / h ) affected many islands in its path , especially those that encountered its center , and many wharves were ruined .

Subsequently , it weakened and made landfall at Jupiter , Florida , early on September 4 with winds of 125 mph ( 201 km / h ) . The hurricane moved across the state , passing near Tampa before moving into Georgia and dissipating . In Florida , the strong winds of the cyclone blew buildings off their foundations , and numerous trees were prostrated in citrus groves . The Treasure Coast region received the most extensive destruction , and Stuart , Jupiter , and Fort Pierce were heavily damaged . Inland , the cyclone weakened rapidly but produced prodigious amounts of rain , causing a dam to collapse near Tampa . The storm caused $ 3 million in damage ( 1933 USD ) after damaging or destroying 6 @,@ 848 homes .

Unusually , the storm hit Florida less than 24 hours before another major hurricane bearing 125 @-@ mile @-@ per @-@ hour ( 201 km / h ) winds struck South Texas ; never have two major cyclones hit the United States in such close succession .

The origins of the hurricane were from a tropical wave that possibly spawned a tropical depression on August 27 , although there was minimal data over the next few days as it tracked to the west @-@ northwest . On August 31 , a nearby ship reported gale force winds , which indicated that a tropical storm had developed to the east @-@ northeast of the Lesser Antilles . Based on continuity , it is estimated the storm attained hurricane status later that day . Moving quickly to the west @-@ northwest , the storm passed north of the Lesser Antilles and Puerto Rico . Early on September 2 , a ship called the Gulfwing reported a barometric pressure of 978 mbar ( 28 @.@ 88 inHg ) , which confirmed that the storm attained hurricane status . After passing north of the Turks and Caicos islands , the hurricane struck Eleuthera and Harbour Island in the Bahamas on September 3 , the latter at 1100 UTC . A station on the latter island reported a pressure of 27 @.@ 90 inHg ( 945 mb ) during the 30 minute passage of the eye . Based on the pressure and the small size of the storm , it is estimated the hurricane struck Harbour Island with peak winds of 140 mph ( 225 km / h ) , making it the equivalent of a modern Category 4 hurricane on the Saffir @-@ Simpson scale . Interpolation suggested that the storm reached major hurricane status , or Category 3 status , on September 2 .

The hurricane initially followed the course of another hurricane that passed through the area in late August , which ultimately struck Cuba and Texas . This hurricane instead maintained a general west @-@ northwest track . After moving through the northern Bahamas , the hurricane weakened slightly before making landfall at Jupiter , Florida , at 0500 UTC on September 4 . A station there reported a pressure of 27 @.@ 98 inHg ( 948 mb ) during a 40 minute period of the eye 's passage ; this suggested a landfall strength of 125 mph ( 201 km / h ) . At the time , the radius of maximum winds was 15 mi ( 24 km ) , which was smaller than average . After landfall , the hurricane weakened rapidly while crossing the state . It briefly emerged into the Gulf of Mexico as a tropical storm early on September 5 . A few hours later while continuing to the northwest , it made another landfall near Rosewood — a ghost town in Levy County , east of Cedar Key — with winds of about 65 mph ( 105 km / h ) . Turning to the north , the storm slowly weakened as it crossed into Georgia , dissipating on September 7 near Augusta .

On September 2 , a fleet of eight aircraft evacuated all white residents from West End , Grand Bahama , to Daytona Beach , Florida . While the storm was near peak intensity on September 3 , the Weather Bureau issued hurricane warnings from Miami to Melbourne , Florida , with storm warnings extending northward to Jacksonville . Later that day , storm warnings , were issued from Key West to Cedar Key . About 2 @,@ 500 people evacuated by train from areas around Lake Okeechobee . By evening on September 3 , high tides sent sea spray over coastal seawalls in Palm Beach County as residents boarded up buildings ; structures on Clematis Street in West Palm Beach were said to be a " solid front " of plywood . Along the coast , observers reported very rough seas as the eye neared land .

The powerful hurricane moved over or near several islands in the Bahamas . Winds on Spanish Wells and Harbour Island were both estimated at around 140 mph ( 225 km / h ) . Winds reached 110 mph ( 177 km / h ) at Governor 's Harbour , 100 mph ( 161 km / h ) on Eleuthera , and 120 mph ( 193 km / h ) on the Abaco Islands . The storm was farther away from Nassau , where winds reached 61 mph ( 98 km / h ) . The hurricane damaged a lumber mill on Abaco , washing away a dock . Heavy damage occurred on Harbour Island , including to several roofs , the walls of government buildings , and the water system . The hurricane destroyed four churches and 37 houses , leaving 100 people homeless . A 1 @.@ 5 mi ( 2 @.@ 4 km ) road on Eleuthera was destroyed . Several islands sustained damage to farms , including the total loss of various fruit trees on Russell Island . Despite Category 4 winds on Spanish Wells , only five houses were destroyed , although most of the remaining dwellings lost their roofs . Collectively between North Point , James Cistern , and Gregory Town on Eleuthera , the storm destroyed 55 houses and damaged many others . On Grand Bahama , where a 9 to 12 ft ( 2 @.@ 7 to 3 @.@ 7 m ) storm surge was reported , half of the houses were destroyed , as were 13 boats and two planes , and most docks were wrecked .

When the storm moved ashore in Florida , winds reached an estimated 125 mph ( 201 km / h ) in Jupiter ; these occurred after the eye passed . In West Palm Beach , anemometers measured at least 80 @-@ mile @-@ per @-@ hour ( 129 km / h ) winds with gusts to 100 mph ( 161 km / h ) ; barometers ranged from 28 @.@ 64 to 28 @.@ 78 inHg ( 970 to 975 mb ) . The storm produced the strongest winds in the city since the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane . Winds were not as strong farther from the center ; 40 to 45 mph ( 64 to 72 km / h ) winds were observed in Miami to the south , Titusville to the north , and Tampa on the west coast . Fort Pierce estimated peak winds of 80 to 90 mph ( 129 to 145 km / h ) , and pressures dipped to 29 @.@ 14 inHg ( 987 mb ) . Inland , winds near Lake Okeechobee peaked at only 60 mph ( 97 km / h ) . The hurricane dropped heavy rainfall along its path , peaking at 17 @.@ 8 in ( 450 mm ) in Clermont .

At West Palm Beach , the majority of the damage was confined to vegetation . Several coconut and royal palms that withstood the 1928 hurricane snapped , littering streets with broken trunks . Winds downed road signs on many streets , and floodwaters covered the greens on a local golf course . Some garages and isolated structures , mostly lightweight , were partly or totally destroyed , along with a lumber warehouse . Some homes that lost roofing shingles had water damage to their interiors as well . Nearby Lake Worth sustained extensive breakage of windows , including plate glass , and loss of tile and shingle roofing , but preparations reduced losses to just several thousand dollars , and no post @-@ storm accidents took place . Strong winds snapped many light poles in the city , and trees and shrubs were broken or uprooted . As in Lake Worth , officials in West Palm Beach credited preparations and stringent building codes with reducing overall damage . The city had learned from previous experience with severe storms in 1926 , 1928 , and 1929 . High tides eroded Ocean Boulevard at several spots and disrupted access to several bridges on the Lake Worth Lagoon . Winter estates and hotels on Palm Beach generally sustained little material damage , except to vegetation , and county properties went largely unscathed .

In Martin and St. Lucie counties , the storm was considered among the worst on record . The storm leveled some homes and swept many others off their foundations . At Stuart , winds removed or badly damaged 75 % of the roofs in town . The storm destroyed the third floor of the building that housed a bowling alley and the Stuart News , a local newspaper . At Olympia , an abandoned settlement also known as Olympia Beach , strong winds leveled the old Olympia Inn , a gas station , and the second floor of a pharmaceutical building . Winds also tore the roof off an ice plant . A bridge leading to the barrier island from Olympia was partly wrecked ; the bridge tender survived by gripping the railing during the storm . Winds leveled his nearby home . According to the Monthly Weather Review , some of the most severe damage from the storm in Florida was at Olympia . The storm left many homes in Hobe Sound uninhabitable , forcing crews to tear them down . Winter estates on the island , however , were better built and little damaged . While Stuart and Hobe Sound sustained significant damage , Port Salerno suffered minimally . In Stuart , the storm left 400 to 500 people homeless , up to nearly 10 % of the population , which was 5 @,@ 100 at the time . Between Jupiter and Fort Pierce , the storm knocked down power and telegraph lines . In the latter city , high waves washed out a portion of the causeway . In the 1980s , an elderly resident recalled that the storm was the most severe on record in Fort Pierce .

Crop damage was worst along the Indian River Lagoon ; several farms in Stuart experienced total losses , and statewide , 16 % of the citrus crop , or 4 million boxes , were destroyed . Many chicken coops in Stuart were destroyed , and the local chicken population was scattered and dispersed as far as Indiantown . Across southeastern Florida , the hurricane damaged 6 @,@ 465 houses and destroyed another 383 , causing over $ 3 million in damage . One person , an African American farm worker , was killed when his shack blew down in Gomez , a brakeman died after seven railcars derailed , and a child was killed by airborne debris .

High rainfall caused flooding across Florida , notably near Tampa where waters reached 9 ft ( 2 @.@ 7 m ) deep . High rainfall of over 7 in ( 180 mm ) caused a dam operated by Tampa Electric Co. to break 3 mi ( 4 @.@ 8 km ) northeast of Tampa along the Hillsborough River . The break resulted in severe local damage , flooding portions of Sulphur Springs . Workers attempted to save the dam with sandbags , and after the break , most residents in the area were warned of the approaching flood . Over 50 homes were flo