t 6 in ) and the beam was slightly reduced to 31 @.@ 71 metres ( 104 ft 0 in ) .

Upon commissioning , the sister ships were assigned to the 1st Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet . Hyūga had an explosion in one of her main gun turrets that killed 11 men and injured 25 in 1919 ; the following year she accidentally collided with and sank a schooner , losing two crewmen . Before the start of the Pacific War , both ships frequently exercised off the coasts of the Soviet Union , Korea and China in addition to training in Japanese waters . Ise hosted Edward , Prince of Wales , and his aide @-@ de @-@ camp Lieutenant Louis Mountbatten in 1922 during the prince 's visit to Japan . In Korea Bay when the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake struck , they sailed to Kyushu where they loaded supplies from for the victims on 4 September . Together with two other battleships and a pair of light cruisers , Ise sank the destroyer Yayoi in 1926 during gunnery practice . Ise 's AA armament was upgraded in 1931 and Hyūga 's two years later . The latter ship was modernized in 1934 – 36 and Ise in 1935 – 37 , both at Kure Naval Arsenal . During the Second Sino @-@ Japanese War , the sisters frequently patrolled the Chinese coast in support of the blockade imposed by Japan . In August 1937 Hyūga ferried two battalions of Special Naval Landing Forces to Port Arthur . Three years later , she served as the flagship for the Emperor of the puppet state of Manchukuo , Henry Pu @-@ yi , during his state visit to Japan in June 1940 . On 15 November the ships were transferred to the 2nd Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet . The sisters were refitted in late 1940 in preparation for war , which included the fitting of external degaussing coils and additional AA directors .

When Japan began the Pacific War on 8 December , the sisters sortied for the Bonin Islands with four other battleships and the light carrier Hōshō as distant cover for the fleet attacking Pearl Harbor , and returned six days later . On 11 March 1942 Ise and Hyūga sortied from their anchorage at Hashirajima to join the unsuccessful search for the American carrier force that had attacked Marcus Island a week earlier . Similarly they pursued but did not catch the American carriers that had launched the Doolittle Raid on 18 April .

During gunnery training on 5 May , there was a premature detonation in the left gun of Hyūga 's Turret No. 5 that disabled both guns and killed 51 crewmen . Both aft magazines were flooded to douse the resulting fire and save the ship . She received temporary repairs during which the turret was removed and replaced by a circular armour plate on which three triple 25 mm gun mounts were positioned . On 11 May a valve in Ise 's No. 2 engine room stuck in the open position and flooded the engine room . While under repair at Kure , both ships received prototype Type 21 radars . Commanded by Vice @-@ Admiral Shirō Takasu , the 2nd Battleship Division set sail with the Aleutian Support Group on 28 May , at the same time that most of the Imperial Fleet began an attack on Midway Island ( Operation MI ) .

They returned home on 14 June and the IJN began preliminary planning to replace the lost carriers with hybrid carriers converted from battleships . The sisters were selected for conversion and detached from the division on 14 July in preparation . They remained on " standby alert " until the actual conversions began . Ise was converted at Kure Naval Arsenal from 23 February to 5 September 1943 and Hyūga at Sasebo Naval Arsenal from 2 May to 30 November .

After completing her sea trials , Ise was attached to the Imperial Japanese Naval Academy at Etajima and ferried troops and munitions to the naval base at Truk in October . In November the ship began working up , joined by the newly completed Hyūga the following month , and both rejoined the 2nd Battleship Division . On 1 May 1944 , the sisters were transferred to Rear Admiral Matsuda Chiaki 's reformed Fourth Carrier Division of the 3rd Fleet . The division 's 634th Naval Air Group was formed that same day and conducted its first catapult launches in late June .

Shortages of aircraft and serviceability problems greatly retarded pilot training and the ships only had a total of 17 D4Ys and 18 E16As on hand on 1 October ; of these , only 6 and 16 were operational , respectively . The Japanese plan for the defence of the Philippines envisioned that the surviving carriers would be used to lure the American carrier forces away from the invasion area to a position where the carriers could be attacked by land @-@ based aircraft and the transports by the rest of the IJN . The other carrier air groups were not in much better shape and the Japanese decided to retain the aircraft ashore for use against the American carriers . The Fourth Carrier Division was assigned to the Northern Force under the command of Vice Admiral Jisaburō Ozawa and the sisters sailed from Yashima on 20 October . On the morning of 24 October , the bulk of the few aircraft aboard were launched to attack the American carriers as a distraction . They inflicted no damage and caused the Americans to search in the direction from which they had attacked . The Americans finally spotted the Japanese carriers at 16 : 40 , some 200 miles ( 320 km ) east of Cape Engaño , the northeastern tip of Luzon . The American carriers were spread out and it was very late in the day to launch an airstrike , so Admiral William Halsey , commander of the Third Fleet decided to mass his carriers in a position to attack the following morning . Ozawa reversed course during the night , correctly believing that the Americans would follow him north .

Although they had lost contact during the night , the Americans did find the Japanese carriers at 07 : 35 . They had already launched an airstrike of 180 aircraft that was orbiting 50 miles ( 80 km ) ahead of the American carriers while waiting for the Japanese ships to be located . This was just the first of a total of five airstrikes that the Americans launched that day . The sisters were not heavily engaged by the early airstrikes which are focusing on the group 's aircraft carriers . Ise claimed to have shot down five attacking dive bombers from the second wave and one small bomb detonated on Turret No. 2 . Hyūga was lightly damaged by near misses that rupture some hull plating in her bulge and pepper her superstructure with splinters . She took on a 5 @-@ degree list that was quickly corrected before she was ordered to tow the crippled carrier Chiyoda to safety . Her attempt was unsuccessful and Chiyoda had to be abandoned to her fate .

Ise was attacked by 80 @-@ odd aircraft from the fourth wave , but they failed to inflict any serious damage . She dodged 11 torpedoes and was only hit by a bomb once , on the bulge outboard of the port catapult . Some 34 other bombs near missed her , spraying her with splinters and ruptured some hull plates that contaminated some fuel oil and caused leaks in her port boiler rooms . While an exact total of her casualties is not available , it has been estimated that 5 men were killed and some 111 – 121 crewmen were wounded during this attack . Hyūga was unsuccessfully attacked by an American submarine at 18 : 43 . Around 19 : 00 Ozawa learned about a force of destroyers and cruisers that drove off the Japanese destroyers rescuing survivors from some of the carriers lost earlier in the day and sank Chiyoda . He ordered the Fourth Carrier Division to reverse course and engage the Americans , but the battleships were unable to find them , and Ozawa ordered them to reverse course and head for Amami Ōshima . When they arrived on 27 October , Ozawa transferred to Hyūga and hoisted his flag aboard her . While en route for Kure , the division was unsuccessfully attacked by another submarine .

In early November the catapults were removed from both ships , and they loaded troops and munitions later that month . While en route they were diverted to the Spratly Islands upon reports of heavy air raids at Manila . After off @-@ loading their cargo , they sailed for Lingga Island , near Singapore , on 20 Novembe